6.0.0 changelog (#19231)
hashicorp/terraform-provider-google: CHANGELOG.md

## 6.0.0 (Unreleased)

[Terraform Google Provider 6.0.0 Upgrade Guide](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/guides/version_6_upgrade)

BREAKING CHANGES:
* provider: changed provider labels to add the `goog-terraform-provisioned: true` label by default. ([#19190](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19190))

> * activedirectory: added `deletion_protection` field to `google_active_directory_domain` to make deleting them require an explicit intent. `google_active_directory_domain` resources now cannot be destroyed unless `deletion_protection = false` is set for the resource. ([#18906](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18906)) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* activedirectory: added `deletion_protection` field to `google_active_directory_domain` resource. This field defaults to `true`, preventing accidental deletions. To delete a `google_active_directory_domain` resource, you must first set `deletion_protection = false` and apply this change before destroying the resource. ([#18906](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18906))
```

* alloydb: removed `network` in `google_alloy_db_cluster`. Use `network_config.network` instead. ([#19181](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19181))

> * bigquery: added validation to prevent table view creation if schema contains required fields for `google_bigquery_table` resource ([#18767](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18767))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* bigquery: added client-side validation to prevent table view creation if schema contains required fields for `google_bigquery_table` resource ([#18767](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18767))
```

* bigquery: removed `allow_resource_tags_on_deletion` from `google_bigquery_table`. Resource tags are now always allowed on table deletion. ([#19077](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19077))
* bigqueryreservation: removed `multi_region_auxiliary` from `google_bigquery_reservation` ([#18922](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18922))

> * billing: updated resource id for `google_billing_project_info` ([#18823](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18823))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* billing: revised the format of `id` for `google_billing_project_info` ([#18823](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18823))
```

> * cloudrunv2: added `deletion_protection` field to `google_cloudrunv2_service` to make deleting them require an explicit intent. `google_cloudrunv2_service` resources now cannot be destroyed unless `deletion_protection = false` is set for the resource. ([#19019](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19019))

Reviewer: Phrasing could be changed to be aligned with recommendation above but is optional.

> * cloudrunv2: removed `liveness_probe` default API value in `google_cloud_run_v2_service`. Removing this field and applying the change will remove liveness probe from the Cloud Run service. ([#18764](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18764))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* cloudrunv2: changed `liveness_probe` to no longer infer a default value from api on `google_cloud_run_v2_service`. Removing this field and applying the change will now  remove liveness probe from the Cloud Run service. ([#18764](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18764))
```

* cloudrunv2: retyped `containers.env` to SET from ARRAY for `google_cloud_run_v2_service` and `google_cloud_run_v2_job`. ([#18855](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18855))
* composer: `ip_allocation_policy = []` in `google_composer_environment` is no longer valid configuration. Removing the field from configuration should not produce a diff. ([#19207](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19207))
* compute: added new required field `enabled` in `google_compute_backend_service` and `google_compute_region_backend_service` ([#18772](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18772))

> * compute: stopped the `certifcate_id` field in `google_compute_managed_ssl_certificate` resource being incorrectly marked as a user-configurable value when it should just be an output. ([#19069](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19069))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* compute: changed `certifcate_id` in `google_compute_managed_ssl_certificate` to correctly be output only. ([#19069](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19069))
```

> * compute: updated default values  of `connection_draining_timeout_sec`, `balancing_mode` and `outlier_detection` in `google_compute_region_backend_service` and `google_compute_backend_service`. ([#18720](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18720))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* compute: revised and in some cases removed default values  of `connection_draining_timeout_sec`, `balancing_mode` and `outlier_detection` in `google_compute_region_backend_service` and `google_compute_backend_service`. ([#18720](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18720))
```

> * compute: updated resource id for `compute_network_endpoints` ([#18844](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18844))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* compute: revised the format of `id`  for `compute_network_endpoints` ([#18844](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18844))
```

* compute: `guest_accelerator = []` is no longer valid configuration in `google_compute_instance`. To explicitly set an empty list of objects, set guest_accelerator.count = 0. ([#19207](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19207))

> * compute: `google_compute_instance_from_template` and `google_compute_instance_from_machine_image` `network_interface.alias_ip_range, network_interface.access_config, attached_disk, guest_accelerator, service_account, scratch_disk` can no longer be set to an empty block `[]`. Removing the fields from configuration should not produce a diff. ([#19207](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19207))

Reviewer: consider rephrasing

* compute: `secondary_ip_ranges = []` in `google_compute_subnetwork` is no longer valid configuration. To set an explicitly empty list, use `send_secondary_ip_range_if_empty` and completely remove `secondary_ip_range` from config.  ([#19207](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19207))

> * container: made field `advanced_datapath_observability_config.enable_relay` required in `google_container_cluster` resource ([#19060](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19060))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* container: made `advanced_datapath_observability_config.enable_relay` required in `google_container_cluster` ([#19060](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19060))
```

consistency with mentioned field/resource in notes

* container: removed deprecated field `advanced_datapath_observability_config.relay_mode` from `google_container_cluster` resource. Users are expected to use `enable_relay` field instead. ([#19060](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19060))

> * container: three label-related fields are now in `google_container_cluster` resource. `resource_labels` field is non-authoritative and only manages the labels defined by the users on the resource through Terraform. The new output-only `terraform_labels` field merges the labels defined by the users on the resource through Terraform and the default labels configured on the provider. The new output-only `effective_labels` field lists all of labels present on the resource in GCP, including the labels configured through Terraform, the system, and other clients. ([#19062](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19062))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* container: added three label-related fields to `google_container_cluster` resource. These are `resource_labels`, `terraform_labels`, and `effective_labels`. ([#19062](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19062))
```
details seem excessive when compared to other notes.

Author: I think the explanation is more important than the length. The revised version doesn't show how it is a breaking chagne

> * container: made three fields `resource_labels`, `terraform_labels`, and `effective_labels` be present in `google_container_cluster` datasources. All three fields will have all of labels present on the resource in GCP including the labels configured through Terraform, the system, and other clients, equivalent to `effective_labels` on the resource. ([#19062](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19062))

Reviewer: Recommend consistency on label notes.

* container: `guest_accelerator = []` is no longer valid configuration in `google_container_cluster` and `google_container_node_pool`. To explicitly set an empty list of objects, set guest_accelerator.count = 0. ([#19207](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19207))
* container: `guest_accelerator.gpu_driver_installation_config = []` and `guest_accelerator.gpu_sharing_config = []` are no longer valid configuration in `google_container_cluster` and `google_container_node_pool`. Removing the fields from configuration should not produce a diff. ([#19207](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19207))
* datastore: removed `google_datastore_index` in favor of `google_firestore_index` ([#19160](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19160))

> * edgenetwork: three label-related fields are now in `google_edgenetwork_network ` and `google_edgenetwork_subnet` resources. `labels` field is non-authoritative and only manages the labels defined by the users on the resource through Terraform. The new output-only `terraform_labels` field merges the labels defined by the users on the resource through Terraform and the default labels configured on the provider. The new output-only `effective_labels` field lists all of labels present on the resource in GCP, including the labels configured through Terraform, the system, and other clients. ([#19062](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19062))

Reviewer: Recommend consistency on label notes.

* identityplatform: removed resource `google_identity_platform_project_default_config` in favor of `google_identity_platform_project_config` ([#18992](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18992))
* pubsub: allowed `schema_settings` in `google_pubsub_topic` to be removed ([#18631](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18631))
* integrations: removed `create_sample_workflows` and `provision_gmek` from `google_integrations_client` ([#19148](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19148))

> * redis: added a `deletion_protection_enabled` field with a default value of `true` to the `google_redis_cluster` resource ([#19173](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19173))

Reviewer: consistency on deletion protection notes.

> * resourcemanager: added `deletion_protection` field to `google_folder` to make deleting them require an explicit intent. Folder resources now cannot be destroyed unless `deletion_protection = false` is set for the resource. ([#19021](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19021))

Reviewer: consistency on deletion protection notes.

> * resourcemanager: made `deletion_policy` in `google_project` 'PREVENT' by default. This makes deleting them require an explicit intent. `google_project` resources cannot be destroyed unless `deletion_policy` is set to 'ABANDON' or 'NONE' for the resource. ([#19114](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19114))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* resourcemanager: made `deletion_policy` in `google_project` 'PREVENT' by default. This makes deleting them require an explicit intent. `google_project` resources cannot be destroyed unless `deletion_policy` is set to 'ABANDON' or 'DELETE' for the resource. ([#19114](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/19114))
```

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I forgot to modify the changelog in the related PR.

> * sql: removed `settings.ip_configuration.require_ssl` within `google_sql_database_instance`. Please use `settings.ip_configuration.ssl_mode` instead. ([#18843](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18843))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* sql: removed `settings.ip_configuration.require_ssl` in `google_sql_database_instance`. Please use `settings.ip_configuration.ssl_mode` instead. ([#18843](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/18843))
```
